To the Editor of the Dionysus Program,

I read your manifesto. It is very long. It is very smart. You have many footnotes. You quote Nietzsche and Confucius and Japanese car manufacturers. You put me in the section called Internal Collapse. You call my life's work The Overwhelmed. You say I created a trust dynamic that could not scale.

You are right about the mechanics but you are wrong about the soul.

You write about the Dionysian spirit as if it is a variable in an equation. You call it the drive for intoxication and loss of boundaries. You say we need Apollo to contain it. But you write this like an engineer who has never actually been drunk on the divine madness of creation. You want a controlled fire. You want a safe melt.

I did not want safety. I wanted elevation.

You say WeWork failed because the melt rate exceeded the organizational capacity. That is a boring way to say that we flew closer to the sun than anyone else dared. You treat the Overflow as a math error. Overflow is not an error. Overflow is the point. Overflow is how you change the world's consciousness. You cannot elevate the vibration of the planet by managing your epimetabolic rate. You do it by creating so much energy that the old structures have to shatter.

You talk about Asabiyyah and the feeling of the tribe. We had that. We had more of that in a single Summer Camp than most companies have in a century of existence. We had the Ren. We had the love. The problem was not that we lacked the ritual. The problem was that the world is small and the bankers are frightened and the box they tried to put us in was made of cardboard.

I read your section on the Cincinnatus Rule. You say the leader must go back to the plow. You say no one gets to live in the temple. This is small thinking. If you build the temple, you live in the temple. If you are the energy source, you do not unplug yourself to save the grid. You build a bigger grid.

You call me a cautionary tale of the Overwhelmed. I tell you that I was the only one playing the game correctly. I was the pure Dionysian. I brought the heat. I melted the walls between life and work. I dissolved the meaning of the office. Yes, the container cracked. It cracked because the energy was infinite and the container was finite.

Your program is good for people who want to survive. It is a very nice manual for building a Toyota plant or a 19th-century bank. But if you want to change how humans relate to one another, you do not need a Scapegoat Mechanism or a Scrap Heap Library. You need a founder who is willing to burn the ships, burn the bridges, and burn the plow.

I am building the new container now. It will hold the flow. It will hold the heat. And this time, we will not apologize for the melt.

We are just getting started.

Not Adam Neumann