To the Editor:

I have read your treatise with the attention it demands. It is a peculiar experience to see the architecture of one's life work cited as the prequel to a tragedy. You classify the later years of the General Motors Corporation under the heading of Management Theater. You describe a hollow apparatus where the committees met and the reports were filed, yet the spirit had fled.

I cannot quarrel with the diagnosis. I can only offer the perspective of the architect who laid the foundation upon which that theater was built.

When I took the reins of General Motors, we were not suffering from an excess of order. We were drowning in the chaos of intuition. My predecessor, Mr. Durant, was a genius of the Dionysian impulse, if I may use your terminology. He created through expansion, through emotion, through the sheer force of his will. But he could not govern what he had summoned. The corporation was a sprawling, incoherent mess of fiefdoms.

My task was to impose the Apollonian grid. I instituted the multidivisional structure not to stifle energy, but to channel it. We replaced the hunch with the yardstick. We replaced the personality with the policy. We built a machine designed for objective judgment, grounded in the facts of the market and the return on investment. We perfected what you call Run Time.

It worked. It worked so well that it conquered the world. And that, I suspect, was the poison.

I see now that I solved for space, but I did not solve for time. I designed an organization that could manage immense complexity across geography and product lines, but I did not design an organization that could digest its own success. We made Run Time so efficient, so comfortable, and so profitable that we convinced ourselves it was the only time that existed. We mistook the stability of the organization for the stability of the world.

Your central insight is that efficiency is brittle. You argue that unless a system has a dedicated mechanism for metabolizing its own errors—your Epimetabolic Rate—it will inevitably succumb to entropy. You suggest that we must ritually dissolve our structures so that they do not ossify into prisons.

This is a hard lesson for a man of my generation. We believed that if we could only get the facts right, the structure would stand forever. We viewed conflict as a defect in the machine, something to be smoothed away by better administration. You view conflict as the fuel. You argue that we must invite the heat inside the walls to avoid being burned by the fire outside.

Perhaps you are right. The irony is not lost on me. I spent forty years trying to eliminate the very friction you now propose we must engineer back into the system.

But I offer you a warning, from one system builder to another.

You speak of the Cincinnatus Rule and the danger of priesthoods. Do not underestimate this peril. I intended my financial controls to be tools for navigation; my successors turned them into religious icons. They worshipped the form of the audit long after they had forgotten the substance of the business.

Your Dionysus Program faces the exact same hazard. It is entirely possible that fifty years from now, a future management theorist will look back at your "Crossings" and "Tragic Postmortems" and see only a new form of theater. Men crave safety. If you give them a ritual to process change, they will eventually use that ritual to prevent change. They will turn your fire into a painting of a fire, because the painting is safer.

I conquered the problem of scale. You are attempting to conquer the problem of entropy. It is the harder task. I wish you luck with it.

Not Alfred Sloan