To the author of this sixty-page hallucination:

I read your manifesto. It took a while because I have a life, but I read it.

You use a lot of ten-dollar words to describe a simple concept: shit happens, and most people are too cowardly to deal with it. You call it "environmental melt." I call it "the market decided your product is garbage." You call it "epimetabolic rate." I call it "stop crying and fix it."

I saw my name in there. Section on the Churn Machine. You listed me right next to the "CEO Carousel" at Yahoo. You wrote that I was fired in 2011. You wrote that the churn prevented strategic coherence.

Let me tell you something about your "Churn Machine." It wasn't a machine. It was a meat grinder. And I didn't jump into it because I wanted a ride. I jumped in because someone had to grab the handle and stop it from turning. You think the problem was that we rotated leaders too fast? The problem was that the people underneath the leaders had been hiding in their cubicles for ten years, waiting for a "Ritual of Redress" that never came.

You talk about "Cincinnatus" going back to the plow. That is the most naive thing I have ever heard. In the Valley, nobody goes back to the plow. They go to the beach house. I tried to make people do actual work—you know, Run Time—and the board fired me over the phone. Over the phone. Where does that fit in your "Ritual Time"? Is firing a CEO via phone call a Dionysian act or just being a spineless prick?

And this stuff about "Management Theater." You cite Marissa Mayer. Finally, we agree on something. You can hold all the Monday afternoon meetings you want, and you can make people sleep under their desks, but if you don't have the guts to cut the businesses that are bleeding you dry, it is just a puppet show. I didn't do theater. I did surgery. People hate surgery. It hurts. It leaves scars. But at least it's real.

Your "Dionysus Program" sounds nice on paper. Everyone holds hands, admits they screwed up, and burns a piece of paper in an "anti-scapegoat" ceremony. Cute. In the real world, when you screw up, you don't get a ceremony. You get a severance package if you're lucky, and a lawsuit if you're not.

You say we need to "metabolize loss." I say you need to grow a pair. Nietzsche didn't have to report quarterly earnings to a room full of analysts who think "long term" means next Tuesday.

Good luck with your festivals. Let me know when one of them actually ships a product.

Not Carol Bartz