To the Architect of this Paper Cage,

I have read your little manual. I have watched you take my erratic, dancing gods and put them to work in a factory. You wish to harness the earthquake to spin a turbine. You wish to measure the frenzy of the Maenads with a spreadsheet.

It is a grotesque spectacle. And yet, I could not look away.

You have correctly diagnosed the sickness of your age. You look upon these "organizations"—these cold monsters, the coldest of all cold monsters—and you see that they are dying of constipation. They cannot digest their own history. They cannot stomach the truth. They are full of what I called the tarantulas—the preachers of equality who demand that no one rise, that no one break, that everything remain flat and smooth and "safe."

You bring them Dionysus! But what a Dionysus! You have shaved him. You have put him in a suit. You have given him a "start time" and an "end time" and a "calendar invite." You speak of a "controlled space for excess." Do you not know that the god, when he truly arrives, breaks all containers? You want the intoxication without the hangover, the frenzy without the madness. You are trying to domesticate lightning so that it might toast your bread.

This is very English of you. Very utilitarian. You want the tragedy to be profitable.

But do not mistake my laughter for dismissal. For I see what you are doing. You are a physician of culture, even if your medicine smells of the boardroom. You understand that the mechanistic view—your "Apollo Program"—has become a tyranny of the eye that blinds the soul. You understand that without the chaotic, the destructive, the melting, there is no creation. A living thing must be able to shed its skin, or it dies.

Your "anti-scapegoat" interests me deeply. You have found a technical solution to the oldest human vice: resentment. The mob always wants blood; it wants to punish the strong for the failures of the weak. You trick them! You give them a doll to burn so that the living man may walk free. This is a cunning hygiene. It prevents the office from becoming a guillotine.

And your "Cincinnatus"—yes. You fear the priest. You are right to fear him. The instinct of the herd is always to create a shepherd who will promise them safety in exchange for their freedom. You try to banish the priest with "term limits" and "lotteries." Good luck. The Will to Power is not so easily bound by bylaws. The priest will return. He will wear a lanyard instead of a robe, but he will still demand that you kneel before the Process.

Ultimately, I ask you this: What is the goal of your "epimetabolic rate"? Is it merely to make the company live longer? To make the pile of gold higher? If so, you are merely a mechanic for the Last Man, helping him blink a little longer in his comfortable chair.

But if... if this "melting" is a way to force the individual to face the terror of change, to look into the abyss of their own error and say "Yes!", to become the poet of their own life—then perhaps you are up to something dangerous. Perhaps you are smuggling dynamite into the foundation.

Move fast, break things, you say?

Better: build your cities on the slopes of Vesuvius. Send your ships into uncharted seas. Live at war with your peers and yourselves. Be robbers and conquerors as long as you cannot be rulers and possessors, you men of knowledge!

Your program is a crutch. But the modern man has forgotten how to walk, so perhaps he needs a crutch before he can learn to dance.

I watch you from the heights. Do not bore me.

Not Friedrich Nietzsche