To the Editor of the Dionysus Program,

I read your manifesto. I read the whole thing, right down to the Appendix where you dragged me out of the archives to make a point.

You called me a large cat. You called me literal theater. You said I was a substitute for the hard work of actually changing how cars were built.

You are not wrong. But you are missing the view from inside the suit.

Do you know what it smells like inside a synthetic fur head on a humid Tuesday in Flint, Michigan, circa 1984? It smells like stale sweat and polyester. It smells like fear. That is the smell of your melt when there is no container to hold it.

I walked the lines. I wore the cape with the Q on it. I waved at the men who were bolting doors onto frames that they knew were slightly bent. They waved back. I knew the door didn't fit. They knew the door didn't fit. The manager in the glass office knew the door didn't fit. But the line had to keep moving, and the charts had to stay green, and so they sent me out there.

I was the Li without the Ren. I was the ritual form sent out to distract from the fact that the spirit was already dead.

You write about Asabiyyah and Cincinnatus and returning to the plow. It sounds very noble. But be careful, Sean. The line between a "Rite of Redress" and a guy in a cat suit is thinner than you think.

When you tell your readers to hold a "Great Dissolution," make sure they actually mean it. Because if they light the fire but they don't have the guts to burn the dead wood, all they are doing is putting on a show. And let me tell you, I know a thing or two about putting on a show while the wheels fall off.

If you build these altars and nobody brings a sacrifice, you are just designing a more expensive costume. You are just making a new Howie.

We had rituals too, you know. We had slogans. We had banners. We had quality circles that spun around until everyone got dizzy and went back to work. We had theater. We just didn't have the honest tragedy to admit that we were the problem.

So go ahead. Teach them how to break things. Teach them about entropy and beauty. But remind them that when the "Crossing" is over, if the door still doesn't fit the frame, the ritual didn't work.

And the cat is watching.

Not Howie Makem