To the Editor of the Dionysus Program:

I read your report. It weighs too much.

You have wrapped a very simple engine in a lot of expensive philosophical sheet metal. You quote Nietzsche, Hegel, and a half-dozen Frenchmen I have never heard of to explain something that any good mechanic knows in his bones: if you do not test it until it breaks, you do not know where the limit is. And if you do not admit it broke, you are going to kill the pilot.

You call it "Epimetabolic Rate." I call it common sense. If a wing snaps in the wind tunnel, you do not hold a committee meeting to discuss the emotional impact on the aluminum. You sweep up the pieces, you redesign the spar, and you run the wind again. You do it fast, and you do it quiet.

I appreciate what you say about the Apollo Program, but you give them too much credit for the poetry and not enough for the plumbing. They got to the moon because they were terrified of failure, not because they loved tragedy. But you are right about the other thing: the bureaucracy is the enemy of the airplane.

Your "Cincinnatus Rule" is the only thing that matters in that whole stack of paper. I fought the Air Force and the Navy my whole life to keep the inspection team out of my shop. If you let people whose job is "process" into the room with the people whose job is "building," the builders will stop building and start filling out forms. You say "Ritual Oligarchy." I say "too many cooks who don't know how to operate the stove."

I ran the Skunk Works on fourteen rules. You have written a book to say what I said in rule number twelve: "There must be mutual trust between the military project organization and the contractor with very close cooperation and liaison on a day-to-day basis." That is your "Ren." If you have to use a Greek god to get people to tell the truth to each other, fine. But do not confuse the ritual with the work. The work is the metal. The ritual is just there to keep the damn lawyers from stopping the work.

You talk about "melting meaning." When we built the Blackbird, we had to invent a hydraulic fluid that would not explode at 600 degrees. That is a melt. People getting their feelings hurt because their bad idea got shot down is not a tragedy. It is engineering.

Cut the adjectives. Cut the philosophy. Keep the part about firing the stewards if they don't have skin in the game. And for the love of God, stop using the word "epimetabolic." It sounds like a stomach condition.

If it flies, it flies. If it doesn't, fix it.

Not Kelly Johnson