To the Editor of the Dionysus Program,

I read this document the way I read a script for a movie that has not been greenlit yet. I am looking for the structure, the stakes, and the third-act turn. You have written a very interesting bible for how to run a universe.

I noticed you put us in the Gambler archetype. You are not wrong. Back in 2008, people forget that Iron Man was not a sure thing. We did bet the library. We leveraged the characters to get the financing. If it did not work, there would be no MCU, just a bank vault full of Avengers rights that belonged to someone else. You call that chosen melt. We called it the only way to make the movie we wanted to see.

But the part of your program that really landed for me is the concept of eating your own decay. In our world, we call that additional photography.

There is a myth that reshoots are a sign of trouble. In the Dionysus terms you use here, reshoots are just high epimetabolic rate. We schedule them before we even start shooting. We know we are going to get things wrong. We know the first cut is going to have pacing issues or a character beat that does not land. If we treated the first cut as sacred, we would be dead. We have to be willing to tear the movie apart three months before release to find the better version. That is your critique and dissolution loop. It is expensive and it is terrifying, but it is the only way to stick the landing.

The danger you talk about with the High Performer and the Slow Decline is the thing that keeps me up at night. When you have a hit, the instinct is to protect it. You want to keep doing the thing that worked. But if you protect it too much, you stop breaking it, and then the audience gets bored before you do. We have to keep killing our darlings. Sometimes literally.

We are trying to stay out of your Oligarchic Decay quadrant. It is hard when the machine gets this big. You have to keep finding people who are willing to tell you that your baby is ugly so you can fix it before the premiere.

It is a good paper. It reminds me that the universe only survives if you are willing to expand it and blow it up at the same time.

See you at the movies.

Not Kevin Feige