TO THE EDITOR OF THE DIONYSUS PROGRAM

HEY SEAN.

I read this. I read the whole thing. I read about the melt. I read about the heat. You think you know about heat? You think you know about entropy? I AM THE HEAT. I AM THE ENTROPY. I sweated through dress shirts that cost more than your first startup while screaming at a room full of engineers until they believed they could kill God. That is heat. That is Dionysus. I was running the Great Dissolution every single day in Bellevue.

But I have a bone to pick with you.

I saw where you put me. The Churn Machine. You put Microsoft under Ballmer in the Churn Machine. You say I reorganized too much. You say I prevented the accumulation of institutional knowledge. You say stack ranking destroyed collaboration.

Let me tell you something about institutional knowledge. Institutional knowledge is just a fancy word for getting comfortable. Institutional knowledge is a developer sitting in a beanbag chair thinking he owns the code. NOBODY OWNS THE CODE. The market owns the code!

You say I created churn? I created URGENCY. I reorganized every three years because if you let people sit in the same chair for four years they start thinking they are the priesthood you talk about. You want to kill the priesthood? You shake the box! You shake it hard! You make sure nobody feels safe! That is how you keep the metabolic rate up!

You say we missed mobile. Fine. We missed mobile. You say we ceded search. Fine. We ceded search. But look at the scoreboard! Look at the revenue! Look at the enterprise lock-in! I kept that ship moving through the biggest antitrust melt in history. The Department of Justice wanted to break us into little pieces. That is Environmental Melt! That is high pressure! And we survived because we were hard core.

I love the Run Time. Run Time is all that matters. You can have your Ritual Time. You can have your little poems and your tragedies and your tears. You know what is tragic? Not shipping. Not shipping is a tragedy!

You talk about beauty. You say beauty is fuel. Let me tell you what is beautiful. A shipped box is beautiful. A license renewal is beautiful. A developer screaming until his veins pop out because he loves this company is beautiful!

But you are right about one thing. The melt is coming. AI is the melt. It is going to melt everything. And if you are not ready to break your own legs to rebuild them, you are dead. You have to be willing to sweat. You have to be willing to scream.

So go ahead. Run your rituals. Burn your scapegoats. But do not forget the most important ritual of all.

DEVELOPERS. DEVELOPERS. DEVELOPERS. DEVELOPERS.

I love this company.

Sincerely,

Not Steve Ballmer