To the Editor of the Dionysus Program:

I read your script. The Dionysus Program. It is a good title. It sounds like a summer blockbuster or a very expensive cologne.

I had my assistant print it out because I do not like reading long things on screens. I skimmed the math at the end. I had people for the math. I always had people for the math.

You mention Yahoo in your breakdown. You put us in the Churn Machine and the Slow Decline. You list the CEOs like a batting order that couldn't hit the curveball. You talk about Terry Semel leaving in 2007 as part of the carousel.

Let me tell you something about the carousel from the guy who was spinning it.

You write about Apollo and Dionysus. You say Apollo is the rocket and the math, and Dionysus is the wine and the blood and the messy human part. You say the tech companies need more Dionysus.

Kid, I was the Dionysus.

I came from Warner Bros. I came from the place where we manufactured dreams, not search results. I came from the 818, where we knew that a deal happens because you look a man in the eye and you share a meal and you have what you call Ren and I called lunch at the Grill.

When I got to the 650 area code, I walked into a nursery. It was full of brilliant children playing with very dangerous toys. They had the Apollo part down cold. They had servers that could heat a small city. But they had no idea how to tell a story. They thought if you built a better algorithm, the culture would just happen. They thought process produced magic.

I tried to bring the studio model to the server farm. I tried to tell them that you cannot engineer cool. You have to buy it, or you have to romance it. You call it the Readines Gate or the Rite of Redress. I called it producing.

You say we missed the shift. You say we were the Sitting Duck or the Outpaced.

I offered Zuckerberg a billion dollars. One billion. Cash and stock. He was a kid in a hoodie. He said no.

Your equation says that is a failure of my Explanatory Reach or my Metabolic Rate. I tell you it was a failure of the script. The kid wanted to be an emperor, not a vice president. You cannot put that in a spreadsheet.

The engineers looked at me like I was an alien because I wore a suit and I didn't write code. They thought the code was the asset. They were wrong. The attention was the asset. The feeling was the asset.

I tried to turn Yahoo into a media company because media is the only infinite game. Technology is a finite game. Eventually, the code gets better or cheaper or faster, and you die. But the story? The story lasts.

We didn't die because we lacked rituals. We died because the engineers won. They wanted to measure everything. They wanted to optimize the color of the logo. They wanted to A/B test the soul of the company until there was nothing left but the B.

You are trying to sell a system to teach engineers how to feel. Good luck. I spent six years trying to do that.

In the end, they don't want Dionysus. They want a dashboard that tells them Dionysus is at 83 percent capacity.

It is a nice essay, though. If you ever want to turn it into a limited series, have your people call my people.

Not Terry Semel